# movie_collection
 A database for helping people who collect physical copies of films organize and track their collections.

Vibeka McGyver
Movie Collection Database
INFSCI 1022 Database Management Systems
12/12/18

Introduction
The database I created, titled movie_collection, contains data for tracking and maintaining movie collections. This database is meant to be used by someone who has a personal movie collection they want to keep track of. I mainly collect VHS tapes, and I struggle with remembering what movies I own. Buying VHS tapes is so cheap that I often end up with too many copies of the same movie. This database will allow myself and other movie collectors a convenient way to keep track of what they already own, which will help build a more complete and high-quality collection.
In movie collecting two important factors are the object’s quality and its video format, because a complete collection contains one movie on many formats with excellent object quality. This database gives the user the ability to log multiple copies of the same film on different video formats and quality levels. For my personal collection, I like to own my favorite movies on the three most important formats: VHS, Blu-ray and LaserDisk. Each format has a unique viewing experience that another format can’t duplicate. Blu-ray offers a fine crisp HD view, but VHS shows a nostalgic muffled and original feeling view. Similarly, LaserDisks are a combination of a Blu-ray and VHS, but the experience of putting the record-sized disk in the machine is an experience of itself. One of the risks in collecting is that it’s likely to buy a VHS for $0.99, but later realize the tape is damaged, so replacing a poor-quality copy with a brand-new quality item is an important part of the process. Therefore, tracking formats and quality is an important aspect of my database. 
Another important aspect of movie collecting is to log purchase-price. All collectors wonder what their collection is worth, and this function of the database makes keeping track easy. My personal collection mainly focuses on VHS tapes and LaserDisks, which I mostly source from thrift stores. One issue I have found is that I can’t remember where I find my best pieces and get the best deals. A function I added to my database is the ability to connect purchase location to an item. Therefore, I can see which thrift stores I am mostly getting ‘misses’, being sold over-priced items, and avoid those places. For any movie collector, this would be valuable and timesaving data. Along with purchase-price is the option to log a current resale value price. Although VHS tapes have very low resale value, it is still an interesting way to examine the value of the collection. For someone who collects Blu-ray box sets, this tool may be incredibly valuable if they have cheap box-set sourcing methods. 
Movie collecting is fun, endlessly entertaining and can even have high resale value, if that is the collector’s intent. I have a collection of over 100 VHS tapes, which I started in high school before I had a DVD player or Netflix. Over time I have joined VHS collecting communities online and noticed a problem where collectors kept rebuying the same items and oversaturating their collection. The purpose of this movie collection database is to provide a tool for movie collectors who want to keep track of the physical copies of movies they own. Creating a simple, mobile interface for it would turn this database into a seriously useful product. I would make this a mobile application with easy search tools, to check and see if I already own a movie before buying it again for $0.99. The database I built would be very beneficial to movie collectors who want to condense, expand, or complete their collections. 


